[docs]: update JavaScript tutorial according to the upcoming SDK v3 (#177)
hyperledger/iroha-2-docs: src/guide/javascript.md

::: info

This guide targets `@iroha2/client` and `@iroha/data-model` version

> **`^3.0`**, which targets Iroha 2 LTS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`^3.0`**, which targets Iroha 2 LTS (`iroha2-lts`).
```

   :::

::: info NOTE

When you are creating files in the following steps, you must place them in
the same directory that contains `node_modules`, like so:

```
╭───┬───────────────────┬──────╮
│ # │       name        │ type │
├───┼───────────────────┼──────┤
│ 0 │ node_modules      │ dir  │
│ 1 │ addClient.ts      │ file │
│ 2 │ example.ts        │ file │
│ 3 │ package.json      │ file │
│ 4 │ pnpm-lock.yaml    │ file │
│ 5 │ registerDomain.ts │ file │
╰───┴───────────────────┴──────╯
```

> We'd recommend to use [`tsx`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tsx) to run the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using [`tsx`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tsx) to run the
```

reason. `Torii` expects the "classic", native `fetch` function, which is
available natively in Browser. However, both `node-fetch` and `undici`
don't provide `fetch` that is 100% compatible with the native one. Since
`Torii` doesn't rely on those corner-features that are partially provided
by `node-fetch` and `undici`, it's fine to ignore the TypeScript error
here.

:::

And here is the sample of `Torii` initialization in Browser:

```ts
import { Torii } from '@iroha2/client'
import { adapter as WS } from '@iroha2/client/web-socket/native'

const torii = new Torii({
  apiURL: 'http://127.0.0.1:8080',
  telemetryURL: 'http://127.0.0.1:8081',
  ws: WS,
  // passing globally available `fetch`
  fetch: fetch.bind(window),
})
```

::: info NOTE

We make `fetch.bind(window)` to avoid
`TypeError: "'fetch' called on an object that does not implement interface Window."`.

:::

Great! Now we have `signer` and `torii`. Finally, we could create a
`Client`:

```ts
import { Client, Signer, Torii } from '@iroha2/client'

// --snip--
declare const torii: Torii
declare const signer: Signer

const client = new Client({ torii, signer })
```

> `Client` provides useful utilities for transactions and queries. Other
> things could be done without it directly via `Torii`. Both `Signer` and

Reviewer: based on your explanation, maybe something like this;
```suggestion
`Client` provides useful utilities for transactions and queries. You can
also use `Torii` to communicate with the endpoints directly. Both `Signer` and
```

})
```

> When you have a key pair, you might create a `Signer` using the key pair :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you have a key pair, you might create a `Signer` using the key pair:
```

```ts
import { KeyPair } from '@iroha2/crypto-core'
import { Signer } from '@iroha2/client'
import { AccountId, DomainId } from '@iroha2/data-model'

> // Key pair from previous step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Key pair from the previous step
```

declare const keyPair: KeyPair

const accountId = AccountId({
  // Account name
  name: 'alice',
  // The domain where this account is registered
  domain_id: DomainId({
    name: 'wonderland',
  }),
})

const signer = new Signer(accountId, keyPair)
```

> Well, now we are able to make signatures with `signer.sign(binary)`! But
> usually we need to interact with Iroha and send something to it, like
> transactions or queries. `Torii` will help us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Well, now we are able to make signatures with `signer.sign(binary)`! However, to
interact with Iroha, we need to be able to do more than just signing. We would need to send something to Iroha, like transactions or queries. `Torii` will help us with that.
```

> `Torii` class represents HTTP / WebSocket communications with Iroha. It
> will help us to communicate with each Iroha Endpoint, i.e.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Torii` class handles HTTP / WebSocket communications with Iroha.
We will use it to communicate with Iroha endpoints. With the help of `Torii` we can:
```

- Submit transactions

> - Make queries

Reviewer: not submit?
```suggestion
- Submit queries
```

Author: I was always thinking that "submit" is about sending something that implies mutation of a back-end state. In case of transaction "submit" is relevant, but when we do query, we're just reading Iroha state.

Reviewer: what about `send queries`?

Author: Fine too

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Send queries
```

- Listen for events
- Listen for blocks stream
- and so on

> To initialize `Torii`, first we need to know Iroha Torii URLs. Our Iroha

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To initialize `Torii`, we need to know Iroha Torii URLs. Our Iroha
```

Peer is configured to listen for API endpoints at `http://127.0.0.1:8080`
and for telemetry endpoints at `http://127.0.0.1:8081`. Then, we need to
provide appropriate HTTP / WebSocket adapters which `Torii` will use[^1].

> These adapters depends on the environment you are going to use
> `@iroha2/client` in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These adapters depend on the environment in which you are going to use
`@iroha2/client`.
```

[^1]:
    We have to pass environment-specific `ws` and `fetch`, because there is
    no way for Iroha Client to communicate with a peer in an
    environment-agnostic way.

In Node.js `Torii` initialization will look like this:

```ts
import { Torii } from '@iroha2/client'
import { adapter as WS } from '@iroha2/client/web-socket/node'

import nodeFetch from 'node-fetch'

> // another alternative

Reviewer: if there are different alternatives, I think they should be in different code snippets

Author: Oops, forgot to delete it here.

Author: Cleaned.

import { fetch as undiciFetch } from 'undici'

const torii = new Torii({
  apiURL: 'http://127.0.0.1:8080',
  telemetryURL: 'http://127.0.0.1:8081',
  ws: WS,
  fetch: nodeFetch as typeof fetch,
})
```

::: tip

In the example above, we use
[`node-fetch`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-fetch) package which
implements [Fetch API](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#fetch-method) in
Node.js. However, you can use
[`undici`](https://undici.nodejs.org/#/?id=undicifetchinput-init-promise)
as well.

> :::

Reviewer: I think we should say about two alternatives before the code snippet, not after. 

1) One possibility: split the snippet in two parts, imports and torii initialization. This can be done with an ordered list. And when you introduce imports (item 1 on the list), you say: hey, there are two ways to go about it, and provide 2 separate snippets. Then item 2 on the list is torii init.

2) Or you can provide two complet4e snippets. Maybe one of them can be hidden via `::: details`

Author: I think it's not really important to explicitly show how to use `undici` and just mentioning it is enough.

::: info

`fetch: nodeFetch as typeof fetch` type assertion is acceptable here for a

> reason. `Torii` expects the "classic", native `fetch` function which is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reason. `Torii` expects the "classic", native `fetch` function, which is
```

available natively in Browser. However, both `node-fetch` and `undici`
don't provide `fetch` that is 100% compatible with the native one. Since
`Torii` doesn't rely on those corner-features that are partially provided
by `node-fetch` and `undici`, it's fine to ignore the TypeScript error
here.

:::

And here is the sample of `Torii` initialization in Browser:

```ts
import { Torii } from '@iroha2/client'
import { adapter as WS } from '@iroha2/client/web-socket/native'

const torii = new Torii({
  apiURL: 'http://127.0.0.1:8080',
  telemetryURL: 'http://127.0.0.1:8081',
  ws: WS,
  // passing globally available `fetch`
  fetch: fetch.bind(window),
})
```

::: info NOTE

We make `fetch.bind(window)` to avoid
`TypeError: "'fetch' called on an object that does not implement interface Window."`.

:::

Great! Now we have `signer` and `torii`. Finally, we could create a
`Client`:

```ts
import { Client, Signer, Torii } from '@iroha2/client'

// --snip--
declare const torii: Torii
declare const signer: Signer

const client = new Client({ torii, signer })
```

> `Client` provides a couple of tiny, but useful utilities for transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Client` provides useful utilities for transactions
```

> and queries. Other things could be done without it directly via `Torii`.

Reviewer: what are `other things`?

Author: Direct and "raw" communications with endpoints. For example, `Client.submitExecutable(executable)` accepts executable, wraps it into a transaction payload, makes signature from it, wraps it into `VersionedTransaction` and finally calls `torii.transaction(tx)`. Same for `Client.requestWithQueryBox()`. And by "other things" I mean that user could use other endpoints directly via `Torii`.

Reviewer: see my suggestion: https://github.com/hyperledger/iroha-2-docs/pull/177#discussion_r973983818

Author: Fixed

Let's build a small Vue 3 application that uses each API we've discovered
in this guide!

::: tip

> Further we will roughly re-create the project that is a part of
> `iroha-javascript` integration tests. If you want to see the full project,
> please follow to the
> [`@iroha2/client-test-web` sources](https://github.com/hyperledger/iroha-javascript/tree/iroha2/packages/client/test/integration/test-web).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we are roughly recreating the project that is a part of
`iroha-javascript` integration tests. If you want to see the full project,
please refer to the
[`@iroha2/client-test-web` sources](https://github.com/hyperledger/iroha-javascript/tree/iroha2/packages/client/test/integration/test-web).
```

```ts
// FILE: client.ts

import { Client, Signer, Torii } from '@iroha2/client'
import { adapter as WS } from '@iroha2/client/web-socket/native'
import { KeyPair } from '@iroha2/crypto-core'
import { hexToBytes } from 'hada'
import { AccountId } from '@iroha2/data-model'

// importing already initialized crypto
import { crypto } from './crypto'

// the config with stringified keys, account id and torii URLs
import client_config from './config.json'

const torii = new Torii({

>   // these ports are specified in the peer's own config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // these ports are specified in the peer config
```
